UPGRADING.md, before:

# Upgrading from previous versions

## 4.0.0

**The minimum PHP version is now 8.1.**

**BC break:**
We changed the behaviour of the encoding step a bit to be more in line with the actual RFCs. This means that the NAMEPREP step is now performed on ANY label
being passed to the `ToPunycode::convert()` method. This means, that case mangling (transforming UPPERCASE to lowercase) will always happen, even for ASCII only labels.

**BC break:**
Also, we added the flag `useStd3AsciiRules` (default: false) to `ToPunycode::__construct()` (and to `ToIdn::__construct()` as well) in order to allow control over this specific behaviour.
Enabling this flag will lead to a stricter rule set of characters being allowed (only the range [-a-zA-Z0-9]) and enforcing the absence of leading and trailing
hyphens in labels. In case of violating these rules a new `Std3AsciiRulesViolationException` will be thrown.

**BC break:**
When stating the IDNA version (2003 or 2008) one must always use an integer. From now on strict type checking is in place.

**BC break:**
In older version labels containing characters prohibited according to NAMEPREP were silently ignored. Now we are throwing an `InvalidCharacterException`.


## 3.1.0

We changed the behaviour of the Punycode algorithm to now include all basic ASCII characters in the output when using `ToPunycode->convert()`.
This change is expected to have no negative effect, but work more closely to the respective RFCs. The old behaviour even led to some endless loops for a few Unicode characters.


## 3.0.0

The library has been broken down into various specific classes, thus more closely following SOLID principles.

As such the single class `IdnaConvert` has been broken down into `ToIdn` and `ToUnicode` respectively. Their naming reflects 
the format of the outcome, so it's easier picking the right conversion direction.
Usually you will only need one conversion direction per script run, so why bother loading and parsing all the other unused code, then?  

Also, the handling of host names (simple labels like `my-hostname` or FQHNs like `some-host.my-domain.example`) is now separated from
that of email addresses and URLs. 
Both classes offer the same set of public methods:

| Method                  |                                     |
|-------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| `convert()`             |  To convert host names              | 
| `convertEmailAddress()` |  To convert email addresses         | 
| `convertUrl()`          |  To convert the host name of an URL | 

There's no "strict mode" anymore, this is achieved by the separate methods above. The IDN version is selected when instantiating the class, no more setting during runtime.
Also, the encoding (for the Unicode side of things) is now **always UTF-8**. Use `TransCodeUnicode` or `EncodingHelper` for converting to and from various encodings to UTF-8.

All actual subclasses like that for NamePrep and the actual Punycode transformation are put in their own namespaces under `Algo26\IdnaConvert`, e.g. `Algo26\IdnaConvert\NamePrep`. 
Interfaces and Exceptions also have their own namespace to declutter the class structure even more.

The class `EncodingHelper` is now called separated into the two classes `ToUtf8` and `FromUtf8` respectively and lies under the namespace `Algo26\idnaConvert\EncodingHelper`.
The class `UnicodeTranscoder` is now called `TransCodeUnicode` under the namespace `Algo26\idnaConvert\TransCodeUnicode`.

All examples are updated to reflect the new usage. See the ReadMe for more details.

Finally, the **minimum PHP version is now 7.2**.


## 2.0.0
The library has been handed over to actively maintained GitHub and Packagist accounts. This led to a change in the namespace.
Replace all occurrences of 
`Mso\IdnaConvert` or `PhlyLabs\IdnaConvert` to `Algo26\IdnaConvert`.
There's no further changes to the class signatures. 


## 1.0.0
**BC break:**
As of version 1.0.0 the class closely follows the PSRs PSR-1, PSR-2 and PSR-4 of the PHP-FIG. 
As such the classes' naming has been changed, a namespace has been introduced and the default IDN version has changed from 2003 to 2008 and minimum PHP engine version raised to 5.6.0.


## 0.8.0
As of version 0.8.0 the class fully supports IDNA 2008. 
Thus, the aforementioned parameter is deprecated and replaced by a parameter to switch between the standards. See the updated example 5 in the ReadMe.


## 0.6.4
**BC break:** 
As of version 0.6.4 the class per default allows the German ligature ß to be encoded as the DeNIC, the registry for .DE allows domains containing ß.  


## 0.6.0
**ATTENTION:** As of version 0.6.0 this class is written in the OOP style of PHP 5. 
Since PHP 4 is no longer actively maintained, you should switch to PHP 5 as quickly as possible.
We expect no compatibility issues with the upcoming ~~PHP 6~~ PHP 7 as well.

Commit message:

Properly handle case folding in IDNA2008 (#50)
* implement fallback for ICU, clean up code in a few places

UPGRADING.md, after:

# Upgrading from previous versions

## 4.1.0

It is strongly advised to install and configure either the 
[Internationalization Functions](https://www.php.net/manual/en/book.intl.php) or the
[Multibyte Strings](https://www.php.net/manual/de/book.mbstring.php)
extension. _Intl_ is preferred.

If neither is available, you might experience wrong conversion results due to insufficient case folding behaviour for three-codepoint letters. See the [associated issue](https://github.com/algo26-matthias/idna-convert/issues/45)
for details.

There's a wide range of third party users of this library, who cannot enforce either of the extensions. So we will have to resort to recommend installation.


## 4.0.0

**The minimum PHP version is now 8.1.**

**BC break:**
We changed the behaviour of the encoding step a bit to be more in line with the actual RFCs. This means that the NAMEPREP step is now performed on ANY label
being passed to the `ToPunycode::convert()` method. This means, that case mangling (transforming UPPERCASE to lowercase) will always happen, even for ASCII only labels.

**BC break:**
Also, we added the flag `useStd3AsciiRules` (default: false) to `ToPunycode::__construct()` (and to `ToIdn::__construct()` as well) in order to allow control over this specific behaviour.
Enabling this flag will lead to a stricter rule set of characters being allowed (only the range [-a-zA-Z0-9]) and enforcing the absence of leading and trailing
hyphens in labels. In case of violating these rules a new `Std3AsciiRulesViolationException` will be thrown.

**BC break:**
When stating the IDNA version (2003 or 2008) one must always use an integer. From now on strict type checking is in place.

**BC break:**
In older version labels containing characters prohibited according to NAMEPREP were silently ignored. Now we are throwing an `InvalidCharacterException`.


## 3.1.0

We changed the behaviour of the Punycode algorithm to now include all basic ASCII characters in the output when using `ToPunycode->convert()`.
This change is expected to have no negative effect, but work more closely to the respective RFCs. The old behaviour even led to some endless loops for a few Unicode characters.


## 3.0.0

The library has been broken down into various specific classes, thus more closely following SOLID principles.

As such the single class `IdnaConvert` has been broken down into `ToIdn` and `ToUnicode` respectively. Their naming reflects 
the format of the outcome, so it's easier picking the right conversion direction.
Usually you will only need one conversion direction per script run, so why bother loading and parsing all the other unused code, then?  

Also, the handling of host names (simple labels like `my-hostname` or FQHNs like `some-host.my-domain.example`) is now separated from
that of email addresses and URLs. 
Both classes offer the same set of public methods:

| Method                  |                                     |
|-------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| `convert()`             |  To convert host names              | 
| `convertEmailAddress()` |  To convert email addresses         | 
| `convertUrl()`          |  To convert the host name of an URL | 

There's no "strict mode" anymore, this is achieved by the separate methods above. The IDN version is selected when instantiating the class, no more setting during runtime.
Also, the encoding (for the Unicode side of things) is now **always UTF-8**. Use `TransCodeUnicode` or `EncodingHelper` for converting to and from various encodings to UTF-8.

All actual subclasses like that for NamePrep and the actual Punycode transformation are put in their own namespaces under `Algo26\IdnaConvert`, e.g. `Algo26\IdnaConvert\NamePrep`. 
Interfaces and Exceptions also have their own namespace to declutter the class structure even more.

The class `EncodingHelper` is now called separated into the two classes `ToUtf8` and `FromUtf8` respectively and lies under the namespace `Algo26\idnaConvert\EncodingHelper`.
The class `UnicodeTranscoder` is now called `TransCodeUnicode` under the namespace `Algo26\idnaConvert\TransCodeUnicode`.

All examples are updated to reflect the new usage. See the ReadMe for more details.

Finally, the **minimum PHP version is now 7.2**.


## 2.0.0
The library has been handed over to actively maintained GitHub and Packagist accounts. This led to a change in the namespace.
Replace all occurrences of 
`Mso\IdnaConvert` or `PhlyLabs\IdnaConvert` to `Algo26\IdnaConvert`.
There's no further changes to the class signatures. 


## 1.0.0
**BC break:**
As of version 1.0.0 the class closely follows the PSRs PSR-1, PSR-2 and PSR-4 of the PHP-FIG. 
As such the classes' naming has been changed, a namespace has been introduced and the default IDN version has changed from 2003 to 2008 and minimum PHP engine version raised to 5.6.0.


## 0.8.0
As of version 0.8.0 the class fully supports IDNA 2008. 
Thus, the aforementioned parameter is deprecated and replaced by a parameter to switch between the standards. See the updated example 5 in the ReadMe.


## 0.6.4
**BC break:** 
As of version 0.6.4 the class per default allows the German ligature ß to be encoded as the DeNIC, the registry for .DE allows domains containing ß.  


## 0.6.0
**ATTENTION:** As of version 0.6.0 this class is written in the OOP style of PHP 5. 
Since PHP 4 is no longer actively maintained, you should switch to PHP 5 as quickly as possible.
We expect no compatibility issues with the upcoming ~~PHP 6~~ PHP 7 as well.
